I am the owner and founder of Makina Cafe
Hi, my name is Eden Gebregziabher.
Today, I am going to be showing you guys how to make Dorowet
It is the national dish of Ethiopia and also eaten in Eritirea.
So, this process is something that you absolutely can not expedite
You have to be patient, you have to make sure you clean up the chicken really really well.
The way that you serve it is actually serve the entire chicken, it is 12 pieces that go into the Dorowet
The skin by itself is one part, but we are here in the US and I don't like the skin that much,
So, I like to remove it.
If you don't have time to do an entire chicken, the best part at least for me is the dark part.
This process back home when they cook this dish, just cleaning of the chicken is almost like a half a day process
You have somebody that's going to go and get an actual live chicken. They kill it, unfortunately. Sorry
You skin it, and you actually completely part the chicken into 12 pieces.
So, you just kind of pierce it a little bit,
so that when you cook it, you wanna make sure the juice and all the sauce goes in there which gives it even better flavor.
We just soak it in, hold water right here, you just pour it
And I will cut about two or so lemons, squeeze it in, leave it in there. I will leave it for about 30 minutes to an hour or so.
You want to make sure you go back and wash it again and rinse it and re-rinse it
In the mean time, the most important part which is the onion, we are going to get started with that
So, we are going to need a lot of onions for this. We use red onions. Why? All my ancestors used red onions.
Also, white onion has extra water, so you are going to be cooking this and stewing it and simmering it for a long time, for many hours.
So, you want to make sure that you get an onion that one, has a lot of flavor, and then number two, it also doesn't release a lot of water.
I prefer to chop it up into finer chops, but it's up to you if you want to chop it into bigger pieces
Or if you want to do it in a faster way and use a processor, you can also do that just make sure you don't completely puree the onion
And it's ok if you cry as well. I am surprised I'm not crying. Maybe I'll start in a little bit.
This dish is enjoyed best when you cook it at home. You can enjoy it in a restaurant, but usually, because it takes a very long time,
the best Dorowet you will ever have is at somebody's house.
So, what I am going to do is I'm going to go ahead and add the onions, no oil, no nothing.
I'm going to put it on medium heat
You're just going to let the onions sweat the water out. This process by itself takes about an hour or so.
You want to make sure the red onion is completely cooked not only is it completely cooked, it changes its color
From what it is right now into a brown, and we're just going to continue to stir, so your arm is going to be your best of friends today.
In the mean time I'm going to chop off some garlic and some ginger, and throw it in there, just add a little bit of oil.
We have this paste in almost every household.
So, as you can see the onion starts slowly color, looking so beautiful, we're just going to continue to mix it.
We're going to add some boiled eggs at the end. So, we're going to boil some eggs, about six or so of them.
We're going to bring the water to boil, add a little bit of salt, drop the eggs in there, cook for about 15 or so minutes.
Your main job is paying attention to this.You don't want the onion to stick to the bottom and burn it and so, you're constantly stirring.
So you're mixing it, coming back after 5 minutes, mixing it again, coming back.
If you skip this process, you're not going to get the same results.
That sweetness, that earthly taste that it has after you take your first bite, you're not going to get that as well.
The eggs are almost done, so I'm just going to take it out. We're just going to peel the eggs.
One of the reasons why I like the egg is, it's a nice break from the spice. And what you want to do is you want to cut it a little bit.
We do this so that the sauces can go inside.This is the last thing that we are going to add before the dish is complete.
Now the most exciting part, the onion has been cooking for an hour and some change, it is nice and beautiful and brown.
So, I am going to add a little bit of oil and then I am going to add my paste (ginger and garlic).
I have lowered down the temperature around this time. I want to make sure the flavors don't cook too fast. So I have it on medium low.
Berbere is really the backbone of every Ethiopian and Eritrean cooking. This is a spicy dish by itself.
So you can kind of gauge in how spicy you want it. But I like to put about 4 or so depending on the type of berbere it is.
If you've had Ethiopian food or Eritrean food or never had it, this is pretty much what we use in almost a lot of our cooking.
Anything that you see red, it is made with berbere. This is very important, you don't want to put this on high heat.
You want to make sure that your berbere doesn't burn and so you're going to just keep stirring.
And if it looks like it is a little bit on the drier side, I like to keep hot water close to me, so I'll just pour a little bit, a tad bit.
And you're just going to continue to stir, that's all you're going to do. This particular spice blend is my absolute, absolute favorite.
It is, almost every household they make it, their own version of it. It is about seven or eight spices that's mixed in together.
Chili pepper is the main one, you add cardamon, you add cumin, dried ginger, dried red onion
Pretty much any dried that you can think of. I love this not only just to make the stews but I feel like it's one of those underrated spices.
The next spice that you're going to add is cardamon, so we're just going to do a sprinkle of this.
Another thing that we're going to add is "Tazmir Kibbeh", clarified butter. Other people they call it "Gii" but "Gii" is a little bit different.
This has a lot of flavor. You do not need to add too much of it, you just need to use a small amount of it.
But you can find this at any Eritrean, Ethiopian store. So I'm just going to add enough for the flavor, which I'll put about 1 or so.
You also don't want to add too much oil. just simply because you are going to add butter.
So, in regards to water, this is really up to your preference. If you like your Doro thick, then you add less water.
If you like it more on the stewy side, then you add more water. It is time for the chicken to go in there and continue to cook.
So, they've been sitting and soaking in the water for the last hour and some change. I'm just going to rinse it up and drop it in here.
You want to keep washing it until the water is completely clear. We've washed it several times, we're just going to mix it in together.
And, we're  just going to let the onion and the chicken cook really well.
We're going to keep checking on it every few minutes just to make sure that it's cooking well and you're mixing it well
and the chicken is cooked thoroughly. I'm going to cover it. We're going to cook the chicken for about 40 minutes or so.
The last couple of steps we have is, we're going to add "mekelesha". This is optional but I highly recommend it.
It has very similar spices as the clarified butter and even the berbere except the ones that's in here are more like nutmeg, cinnamon
So, they are more like the warmer spices. So you just need to put a tad bit.
So make sure you don't put a lot, because that can overpower the dish. The chicken has been cooking for about 40 minutes or so.
It looks really good and I am just going to sprinkle this, very little, not too much and then I'm just going to drop in the eggs.
There we go, I don't want to mix in too much, sprinkle in some salt just to taste, this is up to your preference.
I am going to cover this again, cook it for another 10 minutes and we will be ready to serve the dish. I am so excited.
Alright look at that, that looks so good. This takes me automatically to my mom's my dad's house when they used to cook this dish.
Our food is very communal and so we usually eat with like family and a big tray in the middle and the dorowet goes in the middle.
And then you have all different side dishes, we have what we call Injera, It is our sour dough flat bread.
And I see a fork and a knife over here, but we don't do that over here. We eat with our hands, so make sure your hands are clean.
Take a little bit of the sauce , I like to take a nice bite, a little bit of the egg, a little bit of the chicken, it's so nice and ready
I am going to take a nice bite mmm.
The onion that's been cooking for hours with our berbere, it almost melts in your mouth. It has a caramelized sweet after taste to it.
It's spicy and the boiled egg does a very good job cutting that spice.
We have this beautiful dish at our place, you can find us, we move around so you can go to makinacafenyc.com
And for a full recipe, click the link below.